The terrain generator tool can be used to generate
maps for Graal which use 3D terrain.

Usage:
Start TerrainGenerator.exe and click on 'Generate World'
to see a map generated using fractal algorithms. To
make an island click on the 'Islands' preset button first.
For a more detailed view click on 'Show level details'.

Random seeds:
For finding the best map you will need to click several
times on the 'Generate World' button. Once you have found
a good one, you can write down the random seed that is
displayed in the upper right corner of the window. Using
that number you can always generate the map again -
click on 'random', then enter the number.

Export:
Click on the save button (disc-icon) to save the generated
world as .gmap file. If you enable 'Generate Graal levels' then
the terrain generator will also generate all the needed
level files and save them in the same folder.

Enable the map in Graal:
For offline tests, add the gmap name into a file loadgmaps.txt,
and put that text file into the Graal folder. Next time you
are starting Graal it will automatically load the gmap if it
is in the current folder or in the Graal folders. To see
nice tiles you must add a tile definition: add a line
picso.png,LEVELSTART,5,0,0
to levels/tiledefs/tiledefsoffline.txt. LEVELSTART is the
first part of the map name, e.g. 'myworld' in 'myworld.gmap'.

Using it online:
Upload the gmap, and add a line
gmaps=LEVELSTART
to the serveroptions. You can put several maps into the same
line, separate their names with commas. You can also add
several gmaps= lines. Afterwards upload the sublevels. Now
you should be able to enter the map. To set the good tiles
you need to call the 'addtiledef' command in a weapon script.
Add a weapon called '-Initialization' (the minus for not
displaying it in the weapon list), set the script to this:

//#CLIENTSIDE
if (created) {
  addtiledef picso.png,LEVELSTART,5;
  loadmap GMAPNAME;
}

The 'loadmap' command is not really necessary, but can
speed up the entering of maps because the map is preloaded.
To add that weapon script to each player, add following script
to the 'Control-NPC' of your server:

if (actionplayeronline) {
  addweapon -Initialization;
}

Using different gfx:
If you want to replace picso.png with new tiles then
just change the tiledefsoffline.txt file (for offline testing)
and the '-Initialization' weapon to use your new tiles instead
of 'picso.png'. Don't forget to upload the tiles to the server.
Do '/find filename' on RC to see if the folder configuration is
correct and people can download the file.
